Clarify "Provide in-app purchases with the Digital Goods API" (#3324)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/digital-goods-api.md

Author: should the OT article
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/origin-trials/?branch=pr-en-us-3324
mention the option/approach of using command-line startup arg, as an alternative to using the edge://flags page?
@captainbrosset

Reviewer: No let's not do this. This is a rare exception case.

#### Use a supported preview channel of Microsoft Edge on your dev machine

Approach 1: Run Edge Dev or Edge Canary version 115.0.1860.0 or later.  With this approach, you use the Digital Goods API on your developer machine only, for testing.

That version of Edge has the `msWebAppDigitalGoods`, `AppStoreBilling` and `DigitalGoodsApi` flags enabled, as part of a running experiment.  These flags will be enabled by default when the Digital Goods API reaches Edge Stable release.

To download a preview (insider) channel of Microsoft Edge, see [Become a Microsoft Edge Insider](https://aka.ms/microsoftedge).

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Start Beta or Stable Edge with command-line arguments on your dev machine

Approach 2: Start Edge Stable or Edge Beta with command-line arguments.  With this approach, you use the Digital Goods API on your developer machine only, for testing.

Start Edge Stable or Edge Beta (prior to version 115.0.1860.0) at the command line, using the following command-line argument to enable the set of three flags:

`--enable-features=msWebAppDigitalGoods, AppStoreBilling, DigitalGoodsApi`

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### Register for the origin trial, then use your token at your website
> 
> Approach 3: Use an origin trial token.  With this approach, you and your users can use Edge Stable, to test the Digital Goods API in production.  You register in the origin trial for the Digital Goods API, and then use your origin trial token at your website.
> 
> See: 
> * [Use origin trials in Microsoft Edge](../../origin-trials/index.md)
> * [Digital Goods API](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/origin-trials/trials/4b4a9ead-d912-4349-87b3-25e5e50b4f13) at _Microsoft Edge Developer_ > _Origin Trials_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Register for the origin trial, then use your token at your website

To test the Digital Goods API in production, with your users, use an origin trial token.  With this approach, when your users download your PWA from the Microsoft Store, they will have the API enabled.

See: 
* [Use origin trials in Microsoft Edge](../../origin-trials/index.md)
* [Digital Goods API](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/origin-trials/trials/4b4a9ead-d912-4349-87b3-25e5e50b4f13) at _Microsoft Edge Developer_ > _Origin Trials_.
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Checking whether the Digital Goods API is available

> 

Author: Add Ref url for window object > getDigitalGoodsService method

Is the present article or article section the draft of the Ref docs for `window` object > `getDigitalGoodsService` method?
@runyuany

Author: ```
* [getDigitalGoodsService() method](https://wicg.github.io/digital-goods/#getdigitalgoodsservice-method) 
on the `Window` interface, in _Digital Goods API: Draft Community Group Report_.
```
https://wicg.github.io/digital-goods/#getdigitalgoodsservice-method

The Payment Request API⁠⁠ handles the actual payment transaction when a purchase is made by a user.  The Payment Request API uses the item details that the Digital Goods API provides, to make the in-app purchase by using whichever billing payment method the user has set up at the Microsoft Store.

See:
* [Payment Request API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Payment_Request_API) at MDN.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Enable the Digital Goods API

> The Digital Goods API is currently available in pre-release versions of Microsoft Edge.  To use the API, do any of the following:

Author: if the PWA Dev registers for the origin trial and uses the OT token at their site, can end-users use Edge Stable now to use the Digital Goods API features?
@runyuany

If the method throws an error, the Microsoft Store Billing payment method is not available (such as when the user is accessing your PWA through the browser).  Alternatively, consider providing a different payment method for transactions.

```javascript
if (window.getDigitalGoodsService === undefined) {
  // The Digital Goods API isn't supported in this context.
  return;
}
try {
  const digitalGoodsService = await window.getDigitalGoodsService("https://store.microsoft.com/billing");
  // Use the service here.
  ...
} catch (error) {
  // The preferred service provider is not available.
  // Use a web-based payment flow instead.
  return;
}
```

This payment method `getDigitalGoodsService("https://store.microsoft.com/billing")` is available only for a PWA that's installed from the Microsoft Store, on Windows.  No other settings are needed.

<!-- todo: 
See also:
* [window.getDigitalGoodsService]()
-->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Querying item details (`getDetails` method)

> <!-- todo: what type is the getDetails method on? -->

Author: what type is each method on?  especially, what type is returned by:
window.getDigitalGoodsService("https://store.microsoft.com/billing")

@runyuany

Reviewer 2: We can add a ref: [digitalgoodsservice](https://wicg.github.io/digital-goods/#digitalgoodsservice)
The WICG doc listed all method return types.

Reviewer: @mikehoffms because this still an experimental API, and because it will eventually be documented on MDN, we don't need to write the entire reference documentation for the API, and it's ok to link to the spec that @runyuany metnioned. I'll leave it to you to decide what needs to be documented here absolutely, vs. what we can just link to the spec.

Author: When saying to use a certain method, it's necessary to state what type or object or interface or class that method is on, so I'm adding that, eg 
```
Use the `consume` method of the `DigitalGoodsService` interface to consume a purchase.
...
* [consume() method](https://wicg.github.io/digital-goods/#consume-method) of the `DigitalGoodsService` 
interface, in _Digital Goods API: Draft Community Group Report_.
```

See [Payment Request API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Payment_Request_API) at MDN.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Origin trial and flag

There's an origin trial and Edge flag for this feature.  As of December 1, 2024, this origin trial is likely to end soon, graduating the feature to be incorporated in Microsoft Edge.  See [Experimental features and origin trials for PWAs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/origin-trials).

> The Edge Experiments flag in `edge://flags/`<!-- todo: which flag? --> will be enabled by default, when this feature ships in Edge Stable.

Reviewer 2: There are three feature flags: `msWebAppDigitalGoods`, `AppStoreBilling` and `DigitalGoodsApi`.
These feature flags are intentionally excluded from the `edge://flags` page, because we do not want users to enable or disable them manually.

> The Edge Experiments flag in `edge://flags/`<!-- todo: which flag? --> will be enabled by default, when this feature ships in Edge Stable.

Author: Strategy: Remove this section "Origin trial and flag", and then merge this PR now.

In 3 weeks, create a PR that revises section:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/digital-goods-api#checking-whether-the-digital-goods-api-is-available
Rewrite "you've correctly enabled the API on your website" like:
to detect whether the API is available to your app, for your app to use, ...

> The Edge Experiments flag in `edge://flags/`<!-- todo: which flag? --> will be enabled by default, when this feature ships in Edge Stable.

Author: snapshot of result:
```
## Origin trial and flag

There's an origin trial and Microsoft Edge flag for this feature.  See [Digital Goods API]
(https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/origin-trials/trials/4b4a9ead-d912-4349-87b3-25e5e50b4f13) 
at _Microsoft Edge Developer_ > _Origin Trials_.

The Edge Experiments flag in `edge://flags/`<!-- todo: which flag? --> will be enabled 
by default, when this feature ships in Edge Stable.
```
https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/origin-trials/trials/4b4a9ead-d912-4349-87b3-25e5e50b4f13

> The Edge Experiments flag in `edge://flags/`<!-- todo: which flag? --> will be enabled by default, when this feature ships in Edge Stable.

Author: probably Outdated; will Close and re-enter Comment as needed, at each "todo"

> This feature ships with a pre-release of Microsoft Edge.<!-- todo: specify the exact version number here when available -->

Author: specify the exact Edge version number here when this feature is available
@runyuany

Author: comment probably Outdated, will Close & re-enter as needed

See [Payment Request API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Payment_Request_API) at MDN.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Origin trial and flag
> 
> There's an origin trial and Microsoft Edge flag for this feature.  See [Digital Goods API](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/origin-trials/trials/4b4a9ead-d912-4349-87b3-25e5e50b4f13) at _Microsoft Edge Developer_ > _Origin Trials_.
> 
> The Edge Experiments flag in `edge://flags/`<!-- todo: which flag? --> will be enabled by default, when this feature ships in Edge Stable.
> 
> This feature ships with a pre-release of Microsoft Edge.<!-- todo: specify the exact version number here when available -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enable the Digital Goods API

The Digital Goods API is currently available in pre-release versions of Microsoft Edge. To use the API, either enable the feature locally in Microsoft Edge, or register to the Digital Goods API origin trial to test the API in production.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Enable the feature locally

To enable the Digital Goods API on your developer machine only, for testing:

TODO: ask Runyuan how devs are expected to enable the 3 flags (msWebAppDigitalGoods, AppStoreBilling and DigitalGoodsApi). They are excluded from edge://flags.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Use the origin trial to test the feature in production

To test the Digital Goods API in production, register to the origin trial:

TODO: document the steps needed to register. The OT is listed here: https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/origin-trials/trials 
We could also link to https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/origin-trials/#registering-for-an-origin-trial which already has the docs we need.
```

Author: snapshot of result:
```
<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Enable the Digital Goods API

The Digital Goods API is currently available in pre-release versions of Microsoft 
Edge.  To use the API, either enable the feature locally in Microsoft Edge, or register 
in the Digital Goods API origin trial to test the API in production.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Enable the feature locally

To enable the Digital Goods API on your developer machine only, for testing:

TODO: How do you enable the flags `msWebAppDigitalGoods`, `AppStoreBilling` and 
`DigitalGoodsApi`?  They are excluded from `edge://flags`.

<!-- The Edge Experiments flag in `edge://flags/` will be enabled by default, when this 
feature ships in Edge Stable. -->
<!-- todo: which flag? -->

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Use the origin trial to test the feature in production

To test the Digital Goods API in production, register in the origin trial.  See: 
* [Digital Goods API](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/origin-trials/trials/4b4a9ead-d912-4349-87b3-25e5e50b4f13) at _Microsoft Edge Developer_ > _Origin Trials_.
* [Registering for an origin trial](../../origin-trials/index.md#registering-for-an-origin-trial) in _Use origin trials in Microsoft Edge_.

<!-- This feature ships with a pre-release of Microsoft Edge.  todo: specify the 
exact version number here when available -->

See also:
* [Experimental features and origin trials for PWAs](./origin-trials.md)
```

See [Payment Request API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Payment_Request_API) at MDN.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Enable the Digital Goods API

The Digital Goods API is currently available in pre-release versions of Microsoft Edge.  To use the API, either enable the feature locally in Microsoft Edge, or register in the Digital Goods API origin trial to test the API in production.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Enable the feature locally

To enable the Digital Goods API on your developer machine only, for testing:

> TODO: How do you enable the flags `msWebAppDigitalGoods`, `AppStoreBilling` and `DigitalGoodsApi`?  They are excluded from `edge://flags`.

Author: How do you enable the flags `msWebAppDigitalGoods`, `AppStoreBilling` and `DigitalGoodsApi`? They are excluded from `edge://flags`.
@runyuany 
Seems like these are required - what do we need to tell users at this time, to make the API available - say use a specific prerelease of Edge?
@captainbrosset

Reviewer 2: The three flags are currently enabled as part of a running experiment and will be enabled by default in the code once we reach the shipping stage. Developers can start using the API at this stage by running `Dev` or `Canary` Edge versions `115.0.1860.0` or later. Alternatively, the API can be used in the Beta and Stable version of Edge by launching it with the following command-line argument: `--enable-features=msWebAppDigitalGoods, AppStoreBilling, DigitalGoodsApi`.

Yes, the three of flags are all required, and I would tell users to use Dev/Canary Edge at this time, since launching Edge with cmd line arguments is not a common way for most of the users.

Author: ```
To enable the Digital Goods API on your developer machine only, for testing:

The `msWebAppDigitalGoods`, `AppStoreBilling` and `DigitalGoodsApi` flags are currently enabled as part of a running experiment, and will be enabled by default in the code once this feature reaches Edge Stable release.  You can start using the API now by running Edge Dev or Edge Canary version 115.0.1860.0 or later.

Alternatively, you can use the API in your own Beta and Stable version of Microsoft Edge by launching Edge with the following command-line argument:

`--enable-features=msWebAppDigitalGoods, AppStoreBilling, DigitalGoodsApi`
```

> <!-- The Edge Experiments flag in `edge://flags/` will be enabled by default, when this feature ships in Edge Stable. -->

Author: which flag? 3 flags?  not surfaced in UI of /flags/?  
The Edge Experiments flag in `edge://flags/` will be enabled by default, when this feature ships in Edge Stable.
Delete these commented-out lines?  This PR will merge before end of OT.  Maybe delete these lines in this PR, and rewrite article when OT ends (future PR).
@runyuany

Reviewer 2: Yes, the flags in question are `msWebAppDigitalGoods`, `AppStoreBilling` and `DigitalGoodsApi`. 
I agree to delete these commented-out lines in this PR, thanks.

Author: deleted hidden comments and TODO line

<!-- todo: which flag? -->

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Use the origin trial to test the feature in production

To test the Digital Goods API in production, register in the origin trial.  See: 
* [Digital Goods API](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/origin-trials/trials/4b4a9ead-d912-4349-87b3-25e5e50b4f13) at _Microsoft Edge Developer_ > _Origin Trials_.
* [Registering for an origin trial](../../origin-trials/index.md#registering-for-an-origin-trial) in _Use origin trials in Microsoft Edge_.

> <!-- This feature ships with a pre-release of Microsoft Edge.  todo: specify the exact version number here when available -->

Author: This feature ships with a pre-release of Microsoft Edge. todo: specify the exact version number here when available

fresh PR Comment b/c previous Comment was Outdated
@runyuany

Author: ```
To use this API, you must install a prerelease of Microsoft Edge, or a later release:
* Edge Dev 115.0.1860.0
* Edge Canary 115.0.1860.0
```

See [Payment Request API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Payment_Request_API) at MDN.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Enable the Digital Goods API

> The Digital Goods API is currently available in pre-release versions of Microsoft Edge.  To use the API, either enable the feature locally in Microsoft Edge, or register in the Digital Goods API origin trial to test the API in production.

Author: is it possible to test in production?  how do users get support in their Edge?

Reviewer 2: Could you clarify what you mean by 'test in production' in this context? Thanks.

Reviewer: "Test in production" means enabling the API in your production application, so that real users of your app can use the features of your app that depends on the API.

Alternatively, you can use the API in your own Beta and Stable version of Microsoft Edge by launching Edge with the following command-line argument:

`--enable-features=msWebAppDigitalGoods, AppStoreBilling, DigitalGoodsApi`

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Use the origin trial to test the feature in production

To test the Digital Goods API in production, register in the origin trial.  See: 
* [Digital Goods API](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/origin-trials/trials/4b4a9ead-d912-4349-87b3-25e5e50b4f13) at _Microsoft Edge Developer_ > _Origin Trials_.
* [Registering for an origin trial](../../origin-trials/index.md#registering-for-an-origin-trial) in _Use origin trials in Microsoft Edge_.

To use this API, you must install a prerelease version 115.0.1860.0 of Microsoft Edge (or a later release), such as:
* Edge Dev 115.0.1860.0
* Edge Canary 115.0.1860.0

See also:
* [Experimental features and origin trials for PWAs](./origin-trials.md)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Checking whether the Digital Goods API is available

> To detect whether you've correctly enabled the API on your website, check for the `getDigitalGoodsService` method in the window object:

Author: add Ref url for window object > getDigitalGoodsService method
@runyuany

> To detect whether you've correctly enabled the API on your website, check for the `getDigitalGoodsService` method in the window object:

Author: Add Ref url for window object > getDigitalGoodsService method

Is the present article or article section the draft of the Ref docs for `window` object > `getDigitalGoodsService` method?
@runyuany

## Checking whether the Digital Goods API is available

> To detect whether you've correctly enabled the API on your website, check for the `getDigitalGoodsService` method in the window object:

Author: this is phrased as if the dev needs to take action to enable the API, but we're not telling them what action that is.
is there an origin trial?
is there a flag to enable somewhere?
does this come with a pre-release version of Edge?

@runyuany

Reviewer 2: Yes, there is a running origin trial for this feature now, but we are planning to graduate the feature from OT soon. Do you think we should list the OT setup guide here for now?
No, the flag will be enabled by default with the feature shipping.
Yes, this will come with pre-release of Edge. I'll provide the exact version number here when we got one.

The Digital Goods API was designed to be compatible with various browsers and digital stores, similar to how the Payment Request API is browser-agnostic and can be used with different payment providers.  To retrieve an instance of the service for Microsoft Store Billing, pass the string `"https://store.microsoft.com/billing"` as the payment method to the `getDigitalGoodsService` method.

> If the method throws an error, the Microsoft Store Billing payment method is not available (such as when the user is accessing your PWA through the browser).  Alternatively, consider providing a different payment method for transactions.

Author: expand on the reasons that might make the payment method not available.
when is the method available exactly?
what are the requirements for it to be available - PWA installed from the store?
are there any other required settings?

@runyuany

Reviewer 2: The payment method will be available only for Edge based PWA which installed from Microsoft Store, on Windows OS. No other required settings needed.

```javascript
if (window.getDigitalGoodsService === undefined) {
  // The Digital Goods API isn't supported in this context.
  return;
}
try {
  const digitalGoodsService = await window.getDigitalGoodsService("https://store.microsoft.com/billing");
  // Use the service here.
  ...
} catch (error) {
  // The preferred service provider is not available.
  // Use a web-based payment flow instead.
  return;
}
```

> This payment method `getDigitalGoodsService("https://store.microsoft.com/billing")` will be available only for a Microsoft Edge-based PWA that's installed from the Microsoft Store, on Windows.  No other settings are needed.

Reviewer: I'll let Runyuan confirm, but I think this means that the PWA runs in the Edge browser engine. That said, my assumption is that all PWAs installed from the MS Store run in Edge anyway, so perhaps we should remove "Edge-based" and just go with "only for a PWA that's installed from the Microsoft Store, on Windows".

> This payment method `getDigitalGoodsService("https://store.microsoft.com/billing")` will be available only for a Microsoft Edge-based PWA that's installed from the Microsoft Store, on Windows.  No other settings are needed.

Reviewer 2: Yes, @captainbrosset is correct. PWAs installed from the MS Store are actually a subset of PWAs running in the Edge browser engine. So, let's remove the "Edge-based" here.

> This payment method `getDigitalGoodsService("https://store.microsoft.com/billing")` will be available only for a Microsoft Edge-based PWA that's installed from the Microsoft Store, on Windows.  No other settings are needed.

Author: This sentence can ship now.

> This payment method `getDigitalGoodsService("https://store.microsoft.com/billing")` will be available only for a Microsoft Edge-based PWA that's installed from the Microsoft Store, on Windows.  No other settings are needed.

Author: result:
```
This payment method `getDigitalGoodsService("https://store.microsoft.com/billing")` will 
be available only for a PWA that's installed from the Microsoft Store, on Windows.  No 
other settings are needed.
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### See also

Digital Goods API specification
* [getDetails() method](https://wicg.github.io/digital-goods/#getDetails-method)

Windows App Development:
* [StoreProduct.InAppOfferToken Property](/uwp/api/windows.services.store.storeproduct.inappoffertoken)

W3C:
* [PaymentCurrencyAmount dictionary](https://www.w3.org/TR/payment-request/#dom-paymentcurrencyamount)

MDN:
* [Intl.NumberFormat](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Purchasing an item (`PaymentRequest.show` method)

Use the `show` method of the `PaymentRequest` interface to purchase an item, after you construct a request that contains the item details.

Once your products and details are displayed to the user, you can implement the purchase flow by using the Payment Request API.  When combined with the Digital Goods API, the only required input parameter is `methodData`.

> Use the `supportedMethods` member of the `methodData`⁠⁠ parameter in the `PaymentRequest` interface to identify Microsoft Store Billing as the payment method with the string `"https://store.microsoft.com/billing"`.  Then in the `data` member, pass along the item ID as the `sku`.

Author: rewrote, clarified, linked
```
In the `PaymentRequest` constructor's `methodData`⁠⁠ parameter (type =`PaymentRequestEvent`):
* Use the `supportedMethods` member to identify Microsoft Store Billing as the payment method with the string `"https://store.microsoft.com/billing"`.
* In the `data` member, pass along the item ID as the `sku`:
...
* [PaymentRequestEvent: methodData property](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/PaymentRequestEvent/methodData)
```
https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/PaymentRequestEvent/methodData

The item's `price` is a `PaymentCurrencyAmount` that contains the current price of the item in the user's current region and currency.  The `price` is designed to be formatted for the user's current locale by using `Intl.NumberFormat`, as shown above.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### See also

> Digital Goods API: Draft Community Group Report
> * [DigitalGoodsService interface](https://wicg.github.io/digital-goods/#digitalgoodsservice) in _Digital Goods API: Draft Community Group Report_.
>    * [getDetails() method](https://wicg.github.io/digital-goods/#getDetails-method) in _Digital Goods API: Draft Community Group Report_.
> 
> Learn.microsoft.com:
> * [StoreProduct.InAppOfferToken Property](/uwp/api/windows.services.store.storeproduct.inappoffertoken).
> 
> W3C:
> * [PaymentCurrencyAmount dictionary](https://www.w3.org/TR/payment-request/#dom-paymentcurrencyamount) in _Payment Request API: W3C Candidate Recommendation Draft_.
> 
> MDN:
> * [Intl.NumberFormat](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat) at MDN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Digital Goods API specification:
* [getDetails() method](https://wicg.github.io/digital-goods/#getDetails-method).

Learn.microsoft.com:
* [StoreProduct.InAppOfferToken Property](/uwp/api/windows.services.store.storeproduct.inappoffertoken).

MDN:
* [Intl.NumberFormat](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat) at MDN.
```

Trying to simplify this a bit. I find it harder to read than it needs to be.

In fact, can you globally remove "Draft Community Group Report" in this article? It assumes that developers know what a Community Group is (many don't), and the word "report" is confusing because the document is meant to be a spec (most web developers understand the concept of specs).
I would just use "Digital Goods API specification" throughout.

Author: changed from:
in _Digital Goods API: Draft Community Group Report_
to:
in _Digital Goods API specification_

Author: removed link above getDetails link

Windows App Development:
* [StoreProduct.InAppOfferToken Property](/uwp/api/windows.services.store.storeproduct.inappoffertoken)

W3C:
* [PaymentCurrencyAmount dictionary](https://www.w3.org/TR/payment-request/#dom-paymentcurrencyamount)

MDN:
* [Intl.NumberFormat](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Purchasing an item (`PaymentRequest.show` method)

Use the `show` method of the `PaymentRequest` interface to purchase an item, after you construct a request that contains the item details.

Once your products and details are displayed to the user, you can implement the purchase flow by using the Payment Request API.  When combined with the Digital Goods API, the only required input parameter is `methodData`.

In the `PaymentRequest` constructor's `methodData`⁠⁠ parameter (type =`PaymentRequestEvent`):
* Use the `supportedMethods` member to identify Microsoft Store Billing as the payment method with the string `"https://store.microsoft.com/billing"`.
* In the `data` member, pass along the item ID as the `sku`:

> <!-- todo: in PaymentRequest ctor, the 2nd param (details) is missing, per ctor docs: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/PaymentRequest/PaymentRequest - the 3rd param, "options", says "optional" next to it, unlike "details" param - is that page missing a 1-param overload?  new PaymentRequest(methodData)

Author: in the code listing, in the PaymentRequest ctor, the 2nd param (details) is missing, per ctor docs: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/PaymentRequest/PaymentRequest - the 3rd param, "options", says "optional" next to it, unlike "details" param - is that page missing a 1-param overload?:
new PaymentRequest(methodData)

@runyuany 

rendered section:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/digital-goods-api?branch=pr-en-us-3324#purchasing-an-item-paymentrequestshow-method

Author: above in this section:
"When combined with the Digital Goods API, the only required input parameter is methodData."

In the `details` property of the payment response, a purchase token is returned.

See also:

MDN:
* [PaymentRequest](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/PaymentRequest) at MDN > References > Web APIs > PaymentRequest > Payment Request API.
   * [PaymentRequest: show() method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PaymentRequest/show) at MDN > References > Web APIs > PaymentRequest > Payment Request API.

W3C:
* [PaymentRequest interface](https://www.w3.org/TR/payment-request/#dom-paymentrequest) in _Payment Request API: Candidate Recommendation Draft_ at W3C.
   * [show() method](https://www.w3.org/TR/payment-request/#dom-paymentrequest-show) in _Payment Request API: Candidate Recommendation Draft_ at W3C.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Acknowledging a purchase

> The payment response returns a _purchase token_ string, which can be used for direct communication between your server and the service provider beyond the Digital Goods API.  Such communication can allow you to independently verify information about the purchase before granting entitlements.

Author: removed the "Acknowledging a purchase" section per offline discussion

> Some stores might require that you (the developer) acknowledge<!-- todo: how? using which apis? --> a purchase after the purchase has succeeded, to confirm that the purchase has been recorded.

Author: how do you acknowledge?  what APIs to use?  link?
@runyuany 

rendered:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/digital-goods-api?branch=pr-en-us-3324#acknowledging-a-purchase

Author: removed the "Acknowledging a purchase" section per offline discussion

See also:

> * [PaymentResponse interface](https://www.w3.org/TR/payment-request/#paymentresponse-interface)<!-- todo: correct link? --> in _Payment Request API: W3C Candidate Recommendation Draft_.<!-- todo: add link to big See Also section -->

Author: removed the "Acknowledging a purchase" section per offline discussion

      * [listPurchases() method](https://wicg.github.io/digital-goods/#listPurchases-method) of the `DigitalGoodsService` interface, in _Digital Goods API specification_.
      * [listPurchaseHistory() method](https://wicg.github.io/digital-goods/#listPurchaseHistory-method) of the `DigitalGoodsService` interface, in _Digital Goods API specification_.
      * [consume() method](https://wicg.github.io/digital-goods/#consume-method) of the `DigitalGoodsService` interface, in _Digital Goods API specification_.
   * [PurchaseDetails dictionary](https://wicg.github.io/digital-goods/#purchaseDetails-dictionary) in _Digital Goods API specification_.

MDN:
* [Payment Request API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Payment_Request_API) at MDN > References > Web APIs.
   * [PaymentRequest](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/PaymentRequest) at MDN > References > Web APIs > PaymentRequest > Payment Request API.
* [Intl.NumberFormat](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat) at MDN.

W3C:

> * [Payment Request API: Candidate Recommendation Draft](https://www.w3.org/TR/payment-request/) at W3C.

Author: "Candidate" 2 & 3
